Hello and welcome back to our course on Tableau.
In today's editorial we will look at our brand new business challenge as well as learn how to create
step and jump longshots.
First let's start off by having a look at our business challenge.
So we are looking at the New York state salary analysis.
Now you are required to build a visualization within tableau doing a million analysis of average salary
across industries for the state of New York.
The analysis needs to have the following firstly an average annual salary by county which needs to be
displayed on a map.
We need to show the top five highest earning industries by county and lastly include a time series analysis
of the average annual salary per county.
Now the client had some specific requirements and they do not they've mentioned that they do not want
to see separate graphs on different sheets and also don't want to work with the dashboard.
So some limitations there.
Now they mentioned that they would like all information contained within a single sheet with pop up
charts while the map is being explored.
So we'll have to be innovative yet.
Let's have a look at the data that we are working with.
So if we have a look we can see that and the following school the Quarterly Census of Employment and
Wages annual data beginning 2000.
And this is a C is fall.
If we have a look at it into in excel we can see that it's got quite a number of rows.
If we scroll down and we have information relating to on different grade level levels of granularity
we are obviously only in interested in the average annual salary.
So we'll be ignoring the at the establishments the average employment and total wage we've got.
Yeah.
That it's for us so that will help us to build our time series analysis and then we have in two fields
equaled the ICAC in his title.
Now those are the North American Industry Classification System titles.
So what that means is that it has different levels so for one characters your highest level two characters
like a 1 and a 1 would be the second level 3 Go to your third level and so forth.
So something that has three characters and starting with one one would be related to agriculture these
are crop production these four or five would be related to that.
So we need to factor this into account when we work with our data to ensure that we work with the right
level.
Another complexity with this data is we've got different area types so we've got state.
We know we're looking for county we found county and there's a whole bunch of different levels again
of granularity that we work with so we've got our area type.
And then the area that that relates to.
So we'll have to do a bit of data cleaning.
Once we import this into tableau.
So talking about that let's open tableau.
We will connect to this quite easily luckily this time by just using the text file because we know it's
a CSB and we will just open it.
We can see it reading properly.
There is nothing strange happening in this fall but now the clean up needs to happen.
Now we know the area type we're looking for is only county so we can just add a data source format by
looking at the area type and saying we only want County to be included in there.
All right.
And we can just change our area now big to be called County.
And we also know that this is a geographic roll so we can just change it right now and change it to
a county not a country but a county.
All right then let's look at the in C S codes or the industry.
So I'll just rename the industry because that's what we'll want in the end of the preparation of our
data but we will need to make sure to exclude everything on specific levels.
And for this specific one level two will be more than sufficient.
So that will be everything with two numbers there.
And actually this change this to the string because we'd it's not really a number we want to use this
as a number.
So when there is a 2 characters in the string we would like to see that level that's agriculture for
instance and utilities and construction.
We don't really care about the low levels and we don't want to go up one level but how do we tell to
blow to only look at this level 2 so we can easily do that by creating a calculated field and then we'll
just call this level and then we'll use the line function.
So the lend function is for string functions and that's also why we change that to a string.
And if we just look at what Lane does it returns the number of characters in the given string.
So it just basically counts the number that's there.
So for instance that is level 2 because it's two characters less stable three because of the three characters.
And that's exactly what we wanted to add another yet another data source filter on level where we just
want to see Level 2 so we can exclude one when we can exclude three.
So just two and that reduces our information significantly in terms of the number of records.
And we did mention we don't really want these fields we won't really work with them.
So we can just hide them.
And that is what we'll work with.
So we've got our area top which we know is County.
We've got the county name.
Then also the actual level of the code which we are not going to use in the visualization but is needed
for the data cleanup.
And then also the industry the.
And the average annual salary.
Now let's actually create our first shot as well.
Without further ado.
So if we go into our first sheet we'll be looking at firstly creating the time series analysis.
So for that we know we need to put a year into columns because that we want our time series to run from
left to right.
And we know we want to have the average annual salary we can put that into rose but not aggregated to
some but aggregate it to average.
And we know that we can now see that what the average is over all counties and we'll break this down
later on into each specific county.
But for now this is our shot.
But what what do we know that declined once a specific detail on.
Is this trend every year and is not true.
It's nice to see the overall trend but it's not easy to distinguish you know what exactly the jump has
been or the the amount of increase or decrease has been or even any decrease as well.
You know there's one over there.
So in that case we could obviously go into our both and change the line to and this is where we found
our step and our jump charts.
So if we look at State for instance you can see it literally creates a resemblance of steps of a building.
So where it's easy then to see that where there was an increase in both these years there was a bigger
increase in 2003 than there was in 2000.
So those works really really well for discrete measures where you want to see the impact and even then
look out interesting that is there was a decline and we would not have seen that.
If I just undo that to our previous job that almost looks like a straight line doesn't look like it
decreased.
And the same we can do obviously with the jump lines but in this case I think this will look better
for visualization and then we can just call this our step line chart as simple as that and in the next
tutorial we will be building the rest of the visualizations and combining these and see how we can use
tool tips to our advantage in answering this brief.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.